---
layout: post
title: The Internet is Ephemeral
excerpt:
    As websites disapear, so does the content associated with it.
    This post explores some differences between archival of web and print
    media and calls for action to avoid the loss of information on today's
    subcultures.
---

Well, not the internet itself, but rather the content within.
I spent some time today at a
[local zine library](http://www.papercutzinelibrary.org) that provided an
awesome opportunity to explore various subcultures through independent
publications.
By the nature of zines, most of these publications had extremely limited
distribution with just a few printed copies.
However, as they are physical objects, print materials are easily collectable.
That is to say, they cannot be removed from the library by the creator
arbitrarily[^1].

Although new zines are still being created, many subcultures now have a
predominately online presence.
While it is easy today to find antiwar pamphlets, joke Harvard newspapers, and
anarchist guides from decades ago, it is unclear how much of the content
produced today will still exist online 30, 50 or 100 years from now.
Websites disappear frequently and with them their content is lost.
This is entirely different from the print world where a publisher going out of
business has no impact on their publications already in circulation.
Although the loss of publishers or limited circulation can make some content
hard to find, it does not completely destroy it.

Of course, I'm not the first person to think of this.
The [Internet Archive](https://archive.org/) catalogs web content like a
library to preserve content long after it is removed from its original
location[^2].
However, the web is so large that many interesting works will still slip
through the cracks.
It is not obvious where effort should be focused to capture as much interesting
information as possible.
Moreover, it is impossible to know what we will find interesting about 2015 in
the future.

Rather than casting a wide net, some have begun archiving smaller portions of
the internet.
One of the best examples of this is [textfiles.com](http://textfiles.com) which
catalogs text files from old bulletin board systems.
Like physical zines, these files offer interesting insights into various
subcultures from the mid-1980's.

So, what should we do, and how can you help?
Saving everything is impossible, but I recommend saving some things you come
across on the web that you really enjoy.
Blog posts, videos, music, even insightful forum posts and comments can be
saved with little space on any modern computer.
Then, if that content is removed for some reason you can always re-upload it to
an archival site like the [Internet Archive](https://archive.org).
It may be small, but it is better than nothing and future generations will
thank you for it.

[^1]:
    That's not to say that physical medium doesn't have it's own problems.  A
    fire could completely wipe out the library's collection, permanently erasing a
    lot of content.
    As a side note, if you know of an online archive of zines (or want to help me
    create one) please [drop me a line](mailto:{{ site.email }}).

[^2]:
    Unfortunately, a copyright claim could wipe the information from the
    internet altogether.
