---
layout: post
title: Lentil Stew for the Masses
excerpt: A simple lentil stew recipe.
---

## Background ##

I first received this lentil stew recipe from my Iranian grandmother a few
years ago.
Over the years, I've completely changed it and it now only shares two
ingredients with the original recipe.
In fact, the original recipe didn't even have lentils in it!
Instead, it used the widely inferior kidney bean.
I don't know if I would call it Persian food, even though a Persian passed the
recipe down to me and it contains the secret Persian food ingredient (lemon).
I hesitate to call it Persian food for a three reasons:

1.  **It's spicy.**
    Spicy in the sense that it's hot, not in that it's full of spice (it's
    not).
    Persian food provides the perfect base to add some heat, but for some
    reason nobody does.
    I guess it's more traditional not to, but I think a little (or a lot of)
    heat could improve many Persian dishes.
2.  **It's vegetarian.**
    Technically, it's even vegan!
    There isn't a lot of vegetarian Persian food out there.
    Surely someone will email me reminding me that there is that one okra dish
    and maybe an eggplant one but that's not the point.
    Many of the Persian stews I grew up with have meat in them and if you order
    them at a restraunt, they'll have meat in them too.
    Once again, this is such an easy change  to make.
    All you have to do is not add the meat, and instead add more of the beans,
    split peas, lentils, or whatever other legume is already in the stew.
3.  **I don't remember the third reason.**
    I could have sworn I had one?
    If I remember it I'll edit it in here.
    Check back regularly.

This recipe is great because it's one of those meals that you can make in under
an hour, but still *feels* like you're making an involved meal.
It's more than putting noodles in some boiling water, you know?

Anyway, this dish is seriously good.
I've made it for my parents (the most impartial judges), friends, and
girlfriend before.
In fact, when I told my mom I was going to be cooking dinner with my
girlfriend, she said, "Oh, you should make that lentil thing."
And we did.
That's how good it is.

## Internal Strife ##

To be honest, I wasn't even sure whether to put this recipe on this blog or
not.
Isn't this supposed to be my professional, academic website?
What does a recipe for lentil stew have to do with programming languages
research?
Should I make a new blog, just for this recipe?
No way, that puts a lot of pressure on me to continue a recipe blog and there's
no way I want to run one of those.
Moreover, zero of the posts on this blog currently have anything to do with my
research anyway.
However, to compromise with myself, I will provide the big step semantics for
lentil stew:


    [L-STEW]

    fresh(lentils)           fresh(onion)         fresh(lemon)
    fresh(canola oil)        fresh(crushed red pepper)
    I = (lentils, onion, lemon, canola oil, crushed red peper)
    ----------------------------------------------------------
                         |
              cook(I)    V   lentil stew

I know what you're thinking, "Gimmie those small steps!"
No.
Absolutely not.
The small step semantics for lentil stew is just the recipe and that comes
later.
Besides, the concept of inference rules in a recipe was the joke and now it has
been made.
There's no way I'm writing up more than one of those rules.
